Handoff Context: Local Wren AI Sandbox Setup
1. Project Goal
We are setting up a 100% free, local evaluation sandbox for Wren AI (Text-to-SQL semantic layer).

LLM Strategy: Fully local using Ollama on the host machine to serve an existing local GGUF model file and a local embedding model (nomic-embed-text).
Database: Connects directly over the network to a remote office MySQL database containing massive tables and complex views.
Wren AI Deployment: Running containerized via local Docker Desktop.
2. Completed Actions (Files Generated in d:\Wren.ai)
We have created the core configuration files required for the sandbox:



attendance_view.sql
: A denormalized MySQL view schema for student attendance. It demonstrates LLM best practices: flattened joins, descriptive column naming (avoiding abbreviations), casting numeric codes into readable text (e.g., status codes to Absent/Present), and comments to supply metadata to Wren AI.


Modelfile
: A manifest for Ollama to import a local GGUF model. It configures a temperature of 0.0, sets precise SQL-related stop tokens, and sets a system instruction prompting the model to output only raw, unformatted SQL queries.


config.yaml
: Wren AI's custom configuration file mapping the LLM pipeline (litellm_llm) and embedder pipeline (litellm_embedder) to Ollama's local endpoints (http://host.docker.internal:11434/v1).


docker-compose.yml
: The orchestration stack defining wren-ui (port 3000), wren-ai-service (port 5572), wren-engine, wren-ibis-server, and qdrant. It mounts our custom config.yaml and maps extra_hosts to route internal container traffic to the host's Ollama instance.
3. Current Status
Infrastructure: The user is currently downloading and installing Docker Desktop on the host system.
Workspace: All workspace files mentioned above are fully written in the local directory d:\Wren.ai.
4. Next Steps (Pending Execution Checklist)
Once Docker Desktop is installed, here are the remaining steps to finish:

Configure Ollama for Docker Access:
Add a user environment variable OLLAMA_HOST=0.0.0.0 on the host OS.
Restart the Ollama application so it binds to all interfaces and allows the container network to connect to port 11434.
Import the Local GGUF Model:
Edit 

Modelfile
 by changing the FROM path to the absolute path of your local GGUF file.
Run in PowerShell:
powershell
ollama create wren-sql-model -f d:/Wren.ai/Modelfile
ollama pull nomic-embed-text
Launch the Docker Compose Stack:
Run in PowerShell:
powershell
cd d:/Wren.ai
docker compose up -d
Establish the Remote Connection:
Apply the sandbox DDL in 

attendance_view.sql
 to your office database.
Access http://localhost:3000 in a browser, connect to the remote office MySQL server, select the attendance view, index the schema, and run Text-to-SQL queries.